Please download the file if you are unable to view it from here.
## Introduction
A pulsar is a rotating neutron star that generates electromagnetic radiation beams and is only visible when its emission is directed towards Earth, creating a "pulsed" look ("Pulsars astronomy," 2022) Due to their highly regular signals, pulsars are something that is of large interest. Once a pulsar has been observed, variations from its typical signals can be used as proof of many cosmic phenomena (Xiao et al., 2019). The radio frequencies emitted by both pulsars and interfering objects can be graphed as integrated profiles and DM-SNR curves with features such as the mean, standard deviation, excess kurtosis and skewness. Radio frequency interference (RFI) and noise make up most detections, making real signals challenging to locate (Xiao et al., 2019). The HTRU2 data set created by Lyon et al. (2016) contains 17,898 data points. Our project question is: Which combination of variables collected would make the most accurate knn classification model and for what k value?

The goal of this project was to create the most accurate knn classification model for pulsar star signals. To do this, we created a model that assigned a class to an observation based on the classes of a k number of nearest neighbors. This was performed by tidying the data, summarizing the data, performing a forward selection loop to determine which predictors to use, using the results to determine the best k value, and creating a classification model based on the information obtained. Before performing all this analysis, we set a seed of 300 to ensure that our work would be reproducible.

## Discussion
Our first discovery was that it was better not to use all the variables for classification. Using the forward selection algorithm (nested for loops), we assessed the accuracy of the classification model with the addition of one variable at a time to check if they increased or decreased accuracy. We found that using all variables except mean, curve mean and curve standard deviation would create the most accurate model. Using the variables that increased the accuracy, we created a classification model that checked all neighbors in increments of 10 from 1 to 100, and looked at each k value from 1-60 because the accuracy was the highest in that region. From this, we found that 10 neighbors had the highest accuracy of 97.89%. Then we tested this on our testing data to get an accuracy of 91.11%.

Finding that 5 variables made the best classifier was unexpected because we thought that all of the variables would be helpful in the classification. It was also surprising that the mean of both curves was excluded from the classification model, as these are significant in defining the profile of radio frequencies. It is also surprising that our k value was only 10, and that we needed to use unbalanced data to get this value. We initially used balanced data to find the best number of neighbours and obtained a k value of 2 with an estimated accuracy of 99%, which resulted in severely overfitted data and a model that only predicted one class for all observations, leading to the realization that the duplication of the data points in the balancing process would make the k value extremely small and cause overfitting.

Although this specific classifier is based partially on randomness-predicted negative values, the same method can be used to create classification models that can have significant impacts. They can mean a significant cut down in the data collected about pulsar stars. Collecting data about radio frequencies from space is not an easy task and cutting down on how much data needs to be collected could make a difference. In our case, instead of collecting 8 variables on each radio frequency, we can collect 5 to most accurately classify it as a pulsar star or not. To put into perspective, for our 17,898 entries, 53,694 bits of information need not have been collected if the classification was done using only the 5 variables mentioned. The avoidable data includes some information about both the DM-SNR curve and the integrated profile, which means that some steps of processing data and then graphing it and then finding information about the curve could be avoided, saving the costs, memory, and time doing this. Additionally, this also confirms that we can be reasonably accurate in distinguishing radio frequencies and pulsar stars, because of the high accuracies we got in the results (given a different seed).

Although we found some significant information, some questions still remain:
Will this model do well on other sets of data that were not stored in the database we used?

Why do skewness and curve excess kurtosis make the classification less accurate?

Why was the k value so low?

Why, despite balancing, did the classifier predict all negative values? the results (given a different seed).
